slide 7

How the course will run?

The course is split into sections, in what I hope is a logical order. The first few sections won't have so many 'workshops' but I will encourage you to look at the code, and run the scripts to see what they are doing.

Where appropriate, we will concentrate on DNA sequences and Amino Acids as our subject matter, so that hopefully you can see relevance to your positions

slides 8->10

Sections:

00-Introductions
01-What is Perl?
02-Running a Program
03-Functions 1
04-Variables and Data Structures
05-IO
06-Regular Expressions
07-Decision Making
08-lets write a script workshop
09-File Operations
  - write the book of life workshop
10-References and Extended Data Structures
11-One-liners
12-Functions 2
  - write a function workshop
13-Modules
  - write a module workshop
14-Objects
  - write an object workshop
15-Combining and when to use scripts/modules/objects
16-Testing
17-The End


Slide 11

It doesn't look as though there are many workshops up front, but there will be some quick 'quiz' type exercises for you to do during them.

Also, there is a lot here - too much in fact. I fully expect we will not reach Modules/Objects/Testing in the normal scheme of things. This is the 2nd time that the course has been run, and we didn't manage them except for a few high flyers on Friday afternoon, in short.

So, please don't feel that this looks like the course is going too far if you are a newbie. It has been rearranged to hopefully better lead you on to more complex ideas, but it is more important that you can do something with Perl at the end, than you know the more modern ways of producing code. (There may be a plan to do a more advanced course next year).

Please ask as many questions as you need - during presenting or workshop sessions, but please make them relevant to learning perl, not how it might relate to other languages. If you know Java or Ruby, that is fantastic, and I'd probably question what you might get out of this course, but remember that others don't. The same also goes for systems. I am not here to answer your questions about the systems perl runs on. This might sound draconian, but I want everyone to hopefully come out of this class at the level of perl programmer, and you might hold up others by questioning like this.

Slide 12

The days will run from 9.30am -> 5pm sharp, with 45 minutes for lunch. We will break for coffee at suitable times, but this may be during a workshop, when I hope you will be able to go out, have a break and come back in with the workshop going on around you.

Are there any problems with 9.30am -> 5pm?

Slide 13

I say rules but as a request and favour to me and your colleagues, please don't keep checking emails/websites or try and do work whilst here, and I would ask you not to go back to the office at lunch. This will distract you from learning, and if you aren't on the back row, will probably distract those behind you.

I encourage you to run the scripts as I present (or you can type in from the slides if you prefer), but you should just be typing against the shell. If you must do some work, I'd much rather you informed me that you need to leave the session, and go back to your office. I can't promise that I'll have time to bring you back up to speed, but you will be doing all your colleagues a favour.