This 4 day course is aimed at people with no or very limited perl and software experience.
(Perhaps you have already done a basic perl course, but haven't used it for a while, and want
a refresher).
The aim of the course is to bring the student up to being able to read,write and run a perl
script, using modules, objects and tests.

We will go from the basics (numbers, strings and data structures) to objects, using DNA sequence
manipulation as a focus (where appropriate) to bring a degree of 'real world' to the examples.

Rough outline (subject to change):

Day 1:
 Introductions
 What is Perl?
 Running a program
 Variables and Data structures

Day 2 :
 Inputs and Outputs - STDIN/STDOUT/STDERR/DATA and @ARGV
 Regular Expressions
 Decision Making
 File Operations

Day 3 :
 Functions
 Modules
 CPAN
 Objects

Day 4 :
 Testing
 One-liners
 Extra time: Real production scripts

To be Noted:

If you have software development experience in another language, you may find
this course not to your taste, as we will not be comparing to other languages, or looking
at how you would do something that you can do in another language. This course is designed
to allow people to focus on the language in hand.

This course is not going to go into how to download and install/setup/debug your own perl
environment. As such, if you want to use your own laptop, you may, but it is strongly advised
against unless you are already experienced in that sort of thing (in which case, this course
is possibly already below you) and you ensure that you have downloaded and install the
correct version of perl and relevant modules already. The course tutor will not have time to
help with problems caused by this.

As it is a course designed for newer users of Perl, we will also not be discussing the
greater depth behind each subject area beyond enough to get you working. There will be
pointers along the way as to how you can find this out for yourselves, but we want to get
you writing programs and code that do something.
